>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
>> Kent: We can't help but
notice things, there's something we do,
like say you have a tasks like these.
And it might be that there's
some dynamic aspect to this.
And so would have a list of
properties we are expecting and
another list of properties we aren't.
And then have like a test factory,
essentially,
that sort of for
reaches on those properties.
And how I have my desk set up for
some of our projects,
like it's very clear if something breaks,
and
basically lifts out each of
the generated assertions from a list,
it gives me an x next
to the one that failed.
And I did the same things for
this and it's just presenting
different- Is that kind of
just configuration stuff or?
>> Speaker 1: I'll have to look at
specifically what things look like, but
I'm glad that you brought this up
because that's what we're going to talk
about next.
This is great, so with pure functions,
this works super super well.
So if you notice that all of this stuff
right here that's identical stuff,
but if there was like a slit
difference and maybe that difference is
important like it's password not allowed,
then you might not actually
notice like up to this point,
there's still totally identical.
And so it could be easy to miss
this key differences between this
different assertions here, and so
one thing that I like to do is,
exactly as David was talking about,
create a test factory.
We'll talk about test object factories
like this that pattern themselves.
But when we're doing
a pure function like this,
creating a test factory is
a really good approach.
And so that's what we're gonna do here.
I'm actually gonna put
this in a describe block.
This is one place where a jest, or MOCHA
supports this jest supports this, Jasmine.
This is very common, but it's a way
of grouping similar tests together.
And so here we'll just test the,
or describe is password allowed.
And inside of here I'm gonna
make my allowed passwords.
And then I'll also make
my disallowedPasswords.
And then for each of the, actually,
let's just stick those in here.
So we've got one allowedPassword.
We could add more if we wanted to, but
I think we're good with what we've got.
Let's disallow password.
Here's another one and
here's another one, okay, cool.
With this,
I'll say my allowed passwords for each and
this is going to be a password.
>> Speaker 1: And
we could an it block here.
I think in my solution,
I do a test block, it and tester,
aliases of one another, so
however you like to read it.
But I'll say, it should be allowed.
And actually, even better,
I can, because we're generating
these tests on the fly I'll
make this a template later on.
Say, password should be allowed.
That will make my error message
a lot more descriptive.
If there's an error then I know this
password should have been allowed but
it's not for some reason.
So then I'll just copy
this assertion right here.
And we'll pass in a password.
Expect that to be true.
And we'll do something very similar for
the disallow passwords, yes, question?
>> Speaker 3: I was going to say, because
there's a possibility of an empty string.
I would actually wrap the.
>> Kent: Good idea!
Yeah, good suggestion.
Put quotes around here.
>> Kent: Oops, I think, and
then we'll have our disallowedPasswords,
and we'll expect this to be false.
>> Speaker 1: And that's our free factor.
>> Kent: And then if one of these
were to fail, we'd say maybe
the length has to be we remove
this entirely, there we go.
>> Speaker 1: Then that's, sorry.
That's a, how do I make this thing fail?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE] Requirement 20.
>> Kent: Yeah, there we go.
Thank you, awesome.
So now we see is password allowed.
This should be allowed, but apparently
something's broken to make it not.
We can look at the assertion or
the this code block here.
And actually in this case
it's not all that useful.
When you're doing generated tests,
the error message will be pretty generic.
It's pointing at a part of
code that doesn't give you any
indication of which one of these
is the one that's breaking.
That's why it's important to have
the title contain specific information
about the data, so that when you see the
error title, it will at least show that.
So you're trading off some convenience for
it a little bit.
You gotta do a little bit more work to do
make sure the error message is useful.
But at the end of the day, what's really
nice about this is for a really big,
like if this were a really complicated
function, now you just put a bunch
of these and you say, okay,
these are all passwords that are allowed.
If we are going to now disallow some more,
then we just add another entry to this.
And it's a lot easier to add to this test,
also coming into this test you just
read that variable, and you're like,
okay, I understand what What
these things are all about.
So I'll show you a more extreme example,
and then, yeah, sorry?
>> Speaker 4: Can you talk about why you
chose to put it in a describe block,
in this case, and when you might do that.
>> Kent: Yeah, there isn't a whole lot
of reason, to be perfectly honest.
I mean,
I have this isPasswordAllowed block in, so
it appears, kind of, in my error message.
Alternatively, I could
say is PasswordAllowed.
Like prefix these manually,
and then pull this out iof
the describe block, and
that would be just as well.
So, I'm fine either way.
Like I said, normally I don't really like
describe blocks, so maybe I prefer this.
But there's actually yet
something else that I might do
if I'm gonna have Several tests
like this in my code days,
and that is use this jest in case.
If you are going to be using jest, sorry,
taking a step back,
this is specific stuff.
I love this, it is awesome.
You have this idea of cases, so
we would have just an array
of our password strings.
And then, this is the title and
then your assertion.
And then you can actually
provide the name property, and
that will be used as part of the title for
your output.
And so yeah, I love this.
I should have gotten it ready cuz
I just refactored some tests in
PayPal that leverage this pretty
heavily in a really nice way.
Pure functions, this works really,
really well with.
Another real world example of this is,
I have a project called RTL-CSS-JS.
Which takes some CSS and JS styles,
it's just objects as CSS,
and then converts that to the right
to left conversion of that.
Pretty common tool if you're
doing internationalization.
But this is for CSS and JS specifically.
So the test for this, because it's
a pure function, and there's a ton
of properties we have to manage, that's
sort of how we're doing this in this file.
So rather than having a test for
each of all these different things,
we just have here's our input,
and here's our output.
And it makes it much,
really straightforward, okay.
Padding left's gonna be padding right.
Padding right's gonna be padding left.
And so on and so forth, gets kind of
complicated, and by doing things this way,
you know that all of these tests
don't have anything special or
different about them.
This test is operating in the same way.
The assertions are happening
in the same way.
The setup,
everything's happening exactly the same.
So adding to, making changes to
this test base is a lot easier,
and people do it all the time.
The ones here toward the bottom were
added by a lot of different people
who were like, I have this special
case where I had a space and
tings blew up, so they got a new
test case for that and they fix it.
Okay, cool, let me fix my off thing here,
it'd be six,
because who wants a password
of 20 characters?
Okay, cool, so
that is unit testing at its finest,
well, at its basic, yeah.
>> Speaker 5: Were you gonna talk
about where you located your tests at?
>> Kent: Yeah.
>> Speaker 5: Or
do you wanna do that after?
>> Kent: I'll do that now, if that's cool.
So actually David,
do you wanna just ask that so
everybody knows what we're talking about?
>> David: Yeah, so I was just
looking at the project structure and
I noticed that you had all your tests
in folder is called underscore,
underscore test located near the source.
And so I was just curious where
that convention came from and
if you could talk about it.
>> Kent: Yeah, totally, so
this is a convention that just supports.
It also supports if you want to you could
add a file right here called auth.test or
auth.spec.
It doesn't actually doesn't have
to have any particular name,
it doesn't have to be the same name as the
file it's testing or anything like that,
but there is a pattern by
default that just will match.
So there are a couple of things to just
call out I actually don't care what
you call it.
You can do the dot test, or dot speck, or
you could change the patterns entirely,
but one thing that I would recommend,
is co-locating your test.
I've actually got a blog post about this.
What code comments can teach
us about scaling a codebase.
It's a terrible blog post name
cuz it doesn't give you any idea
of what this blog post is about but
this is exactly what it's about.
It's about co-locating your
tests where in one scenario and
I saw this in a lot of projects.
You would have your search directory and
then your test directory,
and they are mirrors of each other.
And then you come in here and
you delete this file, and
you forget to delete the test.
Or you add a file, and
you forget to add a test.
You move files, and
you forget to move the test.
It just gets to be a total nightmare.
I've entered too many projects that were
like this, and it was really annoying.
Because the tests and
the source get out of sync.
And so by co-locating these
things it makes it a lot easier.
Not only to make sure that
you're moving the test and
keeping things in the right place.
But also if I'm making
a change to this image file.
I see the test right there.
I'm like, I should probably add a test for
this change that I'm making.
So it just makes tests have a much more
relevant position in your project, so
that you're constantly thinking about it.
So yeah, co-locating tests,
really, really good idea.
And the premise of the blog post is
that we don't write code comments in
a comments directory that's
mapped to our source directory.
That doesn't make any sense.
You co-locate your comments.
It makes a lot of sense in the same
way to co-locate your tests, yeah?
>> David: Make a comment that might
be public, or helpful, or both.
When we moved to Jess, I loved
the co-location, it's fantastic for
ergonomics, when you're developing.
Make sure you don't
accidentally ship your tests.
>> Kent: [LAUGH]
>> David: I almost did that.
>> Kent: Yeah, yeah-
>> David: I didn't have them ignored
in my one pectal.
>> Kent: That's a very wise.
>> David: [LAUGH] it's full of snapchats.
>> Kent: Yeah, well, that's a wise idea.
So if you're doing some sort of,
especially if you're doing code splitting,
or dynamic imports, or something like
that, that's probably what happened.
Make sure that your web pack isn't
going to bundle up your tests and
snapshots and stuff, yeah?
>> Speaker 7: If that's a co-locating
test when it comes to integration tests,
cause, for example, we have tests
that operate at the page level and
our UI projects will often have
are source code laid out by page.
And so within there, it's like,
all right, that makes sense.
Have an index spec that's doing
integration testing at that page level.
But then we have cases where we want to
test stuff that actually moves across
pages and so on.
And it's always kind of a head-scratcher,
like where do I [CROSSTALK].
>> Kent: Yeah, where do I put this?
Yeah, that's a great question.
I'm glad you brought it up.
So the principle, I think, let me see
if I can find the basic principle.
Here we go, so place files as close to
where they're relevant as possible.
That's the principle.
And so if it's a unit test
that's gonna be a single file.
You put it right next to it.
If it's an integration test
that tests several units but
they're part of a single feature
then you can put it right there.
In the least common parent directory or
something.
But yeah, if it's an end to end or
integration of several pages,
then at some point I stop caring
about least common parent.
I'm just like, okay,
this is just gonna go at the root,
and that's what we do in
this project as well.
If you check out that client site test.
So those, we have some
integrattion tests at the root of
the source directory thats the whole app.
And then the end to end tests are atually
in an entirely different directory because
we have the end to end tests are covering
server and clients so its at the root.
That's a great question.
Any other questions, yeah.
>> Speaker 8: So I guess it's pretty
common for tests and scribe and
expect all to just be available.
You don't have to import them or anything.
>> Kent: Yeah.
>> Speaker 8: What's the deal with
that and why haven't we moved on?
>> Kent: [LAUGH] From globals?
>> Speaker 8: Yeah.
>> Kent: Yeah, so that's a good question.
Lots of people have
raised that concern and
prefer other frameworks that
require an import of some kind.
>> Speaker 8: Do I have the option
to import [INAUDIBLE] my IDE?
>> Kent: Yeah, yeah, so for the IDE help,
you can configure [INAUDIBLE] slangs or
whatever you're working with
to treat those as globals.
That's what I do.
From a philisophical standpoint of these
globals from these testing stand points.
After you've decided testing framework.
All of our test are gonna need this.
It doesn't make a whole
lot like I use to use AVA.
And I loved that I imported all the stuff.
And but I was like okay every
single test looks exactly the same.
Then why dont we just cut the craft and
just.
Assume that is loaded, or whatever.
So I'm actually fine with the globals.
But the problem with globals,
philosophically, is it makes your
application hard to maintain.
Gotta load this script, and then this one,
otherwise it depends on a global, and
it's a mess.
But we don't have any of
those problems with tests.
We're not modifying these
describe functions,
we're not doing any of that stuff.
So I'm less concerned about the globals.
As far as whether specifically which S
whether you can make it be importable
I feel like there's a project that allows
you to import these functions and yeah.
You could check that out.
But for me I'm tired of importing
stuff that I'm using in every test so
I'm find with having those globals.
So I wouldn't make them myself though.
If the framework didn't
already do the global thing,
I probably would just import them cuz it
feels weird to make them myself I guess.
>> Speaker 8: Good answer.
>> Kent: Yeah, sure.